# 现代大学英语精读(第2版)第五册

## 介绍

全书链接：[https://www.ximalaya.com/album/49466046](https://www.ximalaya.com/album/49466046)

本册开始，阅读难度再次上升，同时也更有思考的乐趣。另外，从本册开始，会在后面推荐一些著名的英文演讲，其中就有大家熟悉的乔布斯，激发读者的热情。

## Who Are You and What Are You Doing Here

原文链接：[https://m.kekenet.com/daxue/201909/593904.shtml](https://m.kekenet.com/daxue/201909/593904.shtml)

本文分享了作者教育观，并阐述了上大学的意义，否定了上学是为了就业的观点。

摘录如下： Education has one salient enemy in present-day America, and that enemy is education——university education in
particular. To almost every university education is a means to an end. For students, that end is a good job.

The best reason to read great writers is to see if they may know you better than you know yourself. You may find your
own suppressed and rejected thoughts flowing back to you with an "alienated majesty." Reading the great writers, you may
have the experience that Longinus associated with the sublime: You feel that you have actually created the text
yourself. For somehow your predecessors are more yourself than you are.

Trying to figure out whether the stuff you're reading is true or false and being open to having your life changed is a
fraught, controversial activity. Doing so requires energy from the professors. This kind of perspective-altering
teaching and learning can cause the things which administrators fear above all else: trouble, arguments, bad press, etc.

## **Two Kinds**

原文链接：[https://m.kekenet.com/daxue/201909/595380.shtml](https://m.kekenet.com/daxue/201909/595380.shtml)

本文以女儿的视角讲述了母亲望女成凤而女儿叛逆的故事，文中母亲代表的中国式家庭教育观，我想不少人会感同身受。用现在的眼光看来，这只不过是一段充满了失败的沟通、无法双赢的家庭教育经历，借助非暴力沟通或双赢思维是能够避免的。

摘录如下： I didn't budge. And then I decided. I didn't have to do what my mother said anymore. I wasn't her slave. This
wasn't China. I had listened to her before and look what happened. She was the stupid one.

You want me to be someone that I'm not!" I sobbed. "I will never be the kind of daughter you want me to be!"

"Only two kinds of daughters," she shouted in Chinese. "Those who are obedient and those who follow their own mind! Only
one kind of daughter can live in this house. Obedient daughter!"

"Then I wish I wasn't your daughter, I wish you weren't my mother," I shouted.

## Love is a Fallacy

原文链接：[https://www.ximalaya.com/sound/414753193](https://www.ximalaya.com/sound/414753193)

这多篇看下来，这篇是目前最有意思、最有趣、最令人忍俊不禁的。为避免剧透，我就少说一点。本文首尾响应，完美闭环，看完后我直呼我直呼，哈哈哈哈。就说到这了，总之墙裂推荐。

## Rewriting American History

原文链接：[https://www.ximalaya.com/sound/414754775](https://www.ximalaya.com/sound/414754775)

本文讲述的是美国历史教材的一些变化及背后的思考。我认可其中的一个做法：不是对历史给一个所谓正统的结论，而是充分准备材料，从不同的角度陈述观点，引导人思考。

## Nobel Peace Price About Global Warming

原文链接：[https://www.ximalaya.com/sound/414756339](https://www.ximalaya.com/sound/414756339)

## The Bluest Eyes

原文链接：[https://www.ximalaya.com/sound/414757228](https://www.ximalaya.com/sound/414757228)

这是个记叙文，然而，我认为确是这么多篇文章中，最难懂的。

## How News Becomes Options and Opinions Off-Limits

原文链接：[https://www.ximalaya.com/sound/414759448](https://www.ximalaya.com/sound/414759448)

本文说明了当代一种社会现代：人们在看新闻，不是在看“事实”，而是在看“观点”，作者认为，现在的新闻跟小说并非没有相似之处了。然而，作者对这种现象并非完全持否定态度，他认为这是言论自由的一种方式。最后，作者还表达了在自由社会对“尊重”一词的看法。

摘录如下： In any version of a free society, the value of free speech must rank the highest, for that is the freedom without
which all other freedoms would fall.

In free societies, you must have the free play of ideas. There must be arguments, and it must be impassioned and
untrammeled.

A free society is not a calm and eventless place——that is the kind of static, dead society dictators try to create. Free
societies are dynamic, noisy, turbulent and full of radical disagreements.

## The Indispensable Opposition

原文链接：[https://m.kekenet.com/daxue/202001/603745.shtml](https://m.kekenet.com/daxue/202001/603745.shtml)

本文所表达的观点，属于民主与自由思想的经典内容：不可缺少的反对派（或忠诚的反对派）。

摘录如下： I wholly disapprove of what you say, but will defend to the death your right to say it.

If we truly wish to understand why freedom is necessary in a civilized society, we must begin by realizing that, because
freedom of discussion improves our own opinions, the liberties of other men are our own vital necessity.

We must insist that free oratory is only the beginning of free speech; it is not the end, but a means to an end. The end
is to find the truth.

The only reason for dwelling on all this is that if we are to preserve democracy we must understand its principles. And
the principle which distinguishes it from all other forms of government is that in a democracy the opposition not only
is tolerated as constitutional but must be maintained because it is in fact indispensable.

The democratic system cannot be operated without effective opposition. For, in making the great experiment of governing
people by consent rather than by coercion, it is not sufficient that the party in power should have a majority. It is
just as necessary that the party in power should never outrage the minority. That means that it must listen to the
minority and be moved by the criticisms of the minority. That means that its measures must take account of the
minority's objections, and that in administering measures it must remember that the minority may become the majority.

## The Danger of a Single Story

原文链接：[https://www.ximalaya.com/sound/414765357](https://www.ximalaya.com/sound/414765357)

认识到硬币有正反面，并坚持凡事至少从两个角度去看待与分析，那么本篇文章就没白读。

摘录如下： It is impossible to talk about the single story without talking about power. Power is the ability not just to tell
the story of another person, but to make it the definitive story of that person.

All of these stories make me who l am. But to insist on only these negative stories is to flatten my experience and to
overlook the many other stories that formed me.

The single story creates stereotypes,and the problem with stereotypes is not that theyare untrue, but that they are
incomplete. They make one story become the only story.

The consequence of the single story is this:  It robs people of dignity. It makes our recognition of our equal humanity
difficult. It emphasizes how we are different rather than how we are similar.

## Come Rain or Come Shine

原文链接：[https://www.ximalaya.com/sound/414767340](https://www.ximalaya.com/sound/414767340)

看得不太懂，但故事倒挺有意思的。

解析：[https://medium.com/the-afterglow/come-rain-or-come-shine-by-kazuo-ishiguro-finding-the-moment-b09e418652db](https://medium.com/the-afterglow/come-rain-or-come-shine-by-kazuo-ishiguro-finding-the-moment-b09e418652db)

## Invisible Man

原文链接：[https://www.ximalaya.com/sound/414776047](https://www.ximalaya.com/sound/414776047)

节选自同名小说（有改编），telling a story about a black teenager present his speech before white people.

## You've Got to Find What You Love

原文链接：[https://www.ximalaya.com/sound/414769322](https://www.ximalaya.com/sound/414769322)

Steve Jobs 在 Standford 的演讲，没想到 Jobs 声音这么年轻！演讲分享三个故事，表达主旨“follow your heart”。

精彩摘录如下： You can't connect the dots looking forward: You can only connect them looking backwards. So you have to trust
that the dots will somehow connect in your future. You have to trust in something-your destiny,life,whatever. Because
believing that the dots will connect down the road will give you the confidence to follow your heart, even when it leads
you off the well-worn path. And that would make all the difference.

Sometimes life is gonna hit you in the head with a brick. Don't lose faith. I'm convinced that the only thing that kept
me going was that I loved what I did. You've got to find what you love. And that is as true for your work as it is for
your lovers. Your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what
you believe is great work. And the only way to do great work is to love what you do. If you haven't found it yet, keep
looking, and don't settle. As with all matters of the heart, you'll know when you find it. And like any great
relationship, it just gets better and better as the years roll on. So keep looking. Don't settle.

I have looked in the mirror every morning and asked myself: "If today were the last day of my life,would I want to do
what l am about to do today?" And whenever the answer has been "No" for too many days in a row, l know I need to change
something. Remembering that I'll be dead soon is the most important tool I've ever encountered to help me make the big
choices in life. Because almost everything-all external expectations, all pride, all fear of embarrassment or
failure-these things just fall away in the face of death,leaving only what is truly important. Remembering that you are
going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. You are already naked.
There is no reason not to follow your heart.

## Where Do We Go from Here

原文链接：[https://www.ximalaya.com/sound/414771197](https://www.ximalaya.com/sound/414771197)

本文是马丁·路德·金的另一篇呼吁黑人平等的演讲，从中可以看到与《I Have a Dream》的影子。

摘录如下： As long as the mind is enslaved, the body can never be free. Psychological freedom,a firm sense of self-esteem, is
the most powerful weapon against the long night of physical slavery. No Lincolnian emancipation proclamation or
Johnsonian civil rights bill can totally bring this kind of freedom. The Negro will only be free when he reaches down to
the inner depths of his own being and signs with the pen and ink of assertive manhood his own emancipation proclamation.

And so I say to you today that I still stand by nonviolence. For through violence you may murder a murderer but you
can't murder murder. Through violence you may murder a liar but you can't establish truth. Through violence you may
murder a hater,but you can't murder hate. Darkness cannot put out darkness. Only light can do that.


